ABOUT

These are Python scripts for use with the Glyphs font editor <http://glyphsapp.com/>.


INSTALLATION

Put the scripts into your ~/Library/Application Support/Glyphs/Scripts/ folder.
You will also need to install Tal Leming's Vanilla. Here's how. Open Terminal and copy and paste each of the following four lines and hit return. Notes: the second line (svn...) may take a while, the fourth line (sudo...) will prompt you for your password.

cd ~/Library/
svn co http://svn.typesupply.com/packages/vanilla
cd vanilla/trunk/
sudo python setup.py install


ABOUT THE SCRIPTS

Anchors
Anchor Mover: GUI for moving anchors vertically in multiple glyphs. Handy for getting all top anchors right after changing your cap height. Needs Vanilla.

Components
Replace components: relinks components in selected glyphs to a new source glyph. Needs Vanilla.

Effects Scripts
Wackelpudding and Beowulferize: Select some or all glyphs in the Font tab, then run the script. It will create alternates of the selected glyphs and create a pseudorandom calt feature. Activate it by selecting Contextual Alternates in e.g. InDesign.
Baseline Wiggle: Creates a pos feature that randomly displaces the glyphs while you type.
Retract offcurve nodes: Deletes all offcurve points (BCPs). Handy for making sure, your font only consists of straight lines. 
Turn offcurve into oncurve: Does exactly what the name suggests. Makes fonts look really weird.

Hinting
Delete Hints: Deletes hints in selected glyphs.

Masters
Copy layer to layer: Copies paths from one Master to another. Needs Vanilla.
Fill up empty layers: Copies paths from one Master to another. But only if target master is empty. Needs Vanilla.

Metrics
Copy sidebearings: steals the sidebearing values from a 2nd font. Needs Vanilla.

OpenType
Make OT Class from selected glyphs: GUI for creating a new OT class with the selected glyphs. Needs Vanilla.

Pixelfonts
Align anchors to pixelgrid: Moves diacritic anchors onto the grid. Assumes a grid step of 50.
Delete components out of bounds: If a component is placed far outside the usual coordinates (happens when you cmd-arrow components with a high grid step), this script will delete them.
Delete duplicate components: Looks for duplicate components (same name and position) and keeps only one.
Flashify Pixels: Creates small bridges in order to prevent selfintersection of paths so counters stay white. This is especially a problem for the Flash font renderer, hence the name of the script.

Smallcaps
The 'Make smcp from c2sc' script creates .smcp copies of your .c2sc glyphs, with the .c2sc glyphs inserted as components in the .smcp copies. For example, if you have A.c2sc, the script will create a.smcp and insert A.c2sc as component. It will not do anything in case a.smcp already exists.

Stylistic Sets 
Synchronize ssXX glyphs: Creates missing ssXX glyphs so that you have synchronous groups of ssXX glyphs. E.g. you have a.ss01 b.ss01 c.ss01 a.ss02 c.ss02 --> the script creates b.ss02
Create pseudorandom calt feature: Creates pseudorandom calt (contextual alternatives) feature based on number of existing ssXX glyphs in the font. Update: now includes the default class in the rotation algorithm.
